I mentioned the fact that, and of course this is my own personal impression, and someone else may have a different impression, and Wayne himself, if he were here, would probably have a different impression.
But I had the impression that he felt that the MSC was his MSC, which by and large it really was when you come out.
He was the MSC to most people.
And because of all the programs and the establishment of the MSC Counseling Directorate and Opus and so many other things that he really started from the ground up.
But when I went in as Director of Business Services working for Howard Vestal, the MSC, the physical plant of the MSC came under my jurisdiction.
Now Wayne and I had always had a good relationship and became close friends.
And that's probably the only thing that saved us because he felt like that someone had taken his child away from him.
He still controlled everything that happened within the building, but the building itself and the maintenance and the operation
And the food service, for example, was under my jurisdiction.
And so there was some tension there, not between us personally, but because of the organizational setup that I think he always resented that.
But there were some good reasons for doing it the way we did it.
All right, now let's jump back to sophomore, junior, senior.
What about some jokes, pranks that you remember, whether you were involved in them or not, but they were
you have at least observed and what are some examples of a good bull we called it good bull well we when when I was a sophomore I met Lee on a blind date and the guy in the room next to me in Durham 6 had an old beat-up Chevrolet and he had a date with a young lady from Bryan and our a guy by the name of Johnny Walker
had a date with Lee, and they were in the back seat.
Yeah, was she from Bryan?
She was from Steep Hollow, which is a little Bryan suburb.
And... Y'all ready for a show?
Yeah, how about, that sounds... Then, to make a real long story short on how I met Lee, Don Johnson was the guy that had the date with the girl in the front seat, Betty was her name.
I had already gone to bed.
And he came up and he shook me and he said, Chuck, you've got to help me out of a problem.
He said, I'm in a bind.
I said, what's the matter, Don?
He said, well, I've got a date with this girl downstairs in the car.
And he says, I'm supposed to be going steady with a girl from San Antonio.
And he said, my conscience is beginning to hurt me.
He said, you're going to have to take Betty home.
And he talked me into getting up, putting on my uniform.
Of course, still we've had to wear uniforms any time we left the building.
And I got in the front seat beside Betty, and Don said, drove the car to downtown Bryan and stopped at the stoplight in front of the Old Palace Theater.
The light was red.
He got out of the car and said to Betty, who's in the middle, Betty, Chuck's gonna take you home and he'll explain everything.
And he walked off.
The car's idling at the red light.
Lee's in the back seat with Johnny Walker.
Of course, I'm looking in the rearview mirror and seeing, boy, that's your pretty little girl in the back seat.
But I took Betty home and called Lee the next day, and then we started dating.
But in any event, after Lee and I started dating, we had my uncle, this uncle that I mentioned to you that was in the Corps, class of 38, had given me an old 42 Plymouth.
which was a fairly new car at that time.
This was in 50, whatever, it was an 8-, 9-, 10-year-old car.
But the guys were always giving me a hard time because I was one of the few guys that was dating a nice-looking local girl because girls were very scarce in those days.
You know, they used to come in on weekends for events.
But as I recall, they took the hubcaps off of that old car and filled them full of shrimp.
and put the hubcaps back on, and we couldn't find where the stink was coming from.
And after a while, somebody confessed, but we had a time with, you know, stuff like that.
One of the things that we used to have, the dorm doors opened inward, and so when the door was closed, the doorknob would stick out in the hall.
You remember the old wooden coat cases?
You'd have the handles on each side where you stick your fingers in.
Well, you'd knock off the wooden end of the thing, and there would be an oval opening.
You saw a notch just about that wide in the bottom of that stick of that board, and you could slip that down over the handle of the door, and they were locked inside.
There's no way they're going to get out because the board, you know, it was one-inch pine lumber, and we had a name for those boards.
but I won't tell you on tape what the board was, but the second word was stick.
All right, now, who would get that treatment?
What would... Upperclassmen.
Then they would... Were they all upperclassmen?
No, just someone that we particularly had it in for, you know.
There was always some nerds around.
All right, thank you, honey.
Haskell, here's yours.
Ahem.
What about some other pranks or jokes that you remember?
Did y'all do any drowned outs that were unusual in design?
Yes.
We didn't do any drowned outs in the dorm, but back to my freshman year on the NX, we used to have a lot of drowned outs.
the barracks were so open that you could be easily caught and easily identified if you drowned out someone in your barracks so you'd make a contract with someone in another barracks someone he wanted drowned out that we didn't even know and then someone that we wanted drowned out that he didn't know so he would drown out our target and then we would drown out his target so that was a that was a kind of an interesting deal what would be the compensation for
this contract?
It wasn't money?
Oh no, no, it would just be for the good bull of it, just the good bull.
Would it be perhaps a swap?
Yes, oh yes, right.
It would be a quid pro quo exchange.
In general, the drown out victim, or any other good bull victim, was somebody that deserved it?
Not always.
Sometimes you'd drown out your buddies just for something to do.
I remember also one time we all had ponchos because it rained.
One of the guys, you know, you made up your bed that the top sheet and the top blanket were just stretched so tight that you could bounce a quarter on them.
That was one of the tests they gave to see if you had made up your bed properly.
Well, we took the blanket and the sheets off
and made an indentation in the mattress by pulling some slats out, put a poncho in the bottom, filled it full of water, caught some fish and frogs out of the little ditch that ran out in front and put those in there so that they were live swimming around, stretched the blanket and the sheet back over and made up the bed so that it was just immaculate.
And the guy goes to get in bed that night, he pulls back his sheet and hear all these fish swimming in this little aquarium that we built in the middle of his bed.
Babo bombs were big.
You'd put a firecracker in a can of babo, throw it in a room and shut the door right quick and when the firecracker went off, the babo would just permeate everything, closets, books, everything.
Who usually had to clean up the babo?
The guy whose room, you know, no one would ever admit that they did it, so he was on his own to clean the mess up, even though he had nothing to do with it.
And that was rare.
Did y'all ever do that with Austin College?
We sometimes used competitively rotten grapefruit or orange with a babble bomb in it.
Never did that.
And this was a fairly rare occurrence because, you know, it did some damage and people just don't want to do that.
Another deal was what we call a float out.
You'd go into a guy's room while he was in class or something and you'd stop up his sink and turn on the hydrant.
And then you would come out and close his door and stuff a towel underneath the door so the water couldn't get out.
It would get two, three feet deep in his room.
And that was pretty destructive, but that happened occasionally.
Now, were the floors cement?
They were cement.
And as I recall, the halls were not carpeted at that time.
You used to play hall hockey.
You'd take a shoe polish can and brooms and play hockey up and down the halls.
And no, no carpets at all.
I think you could bring a little throw rug with you or something like that, but no carpeting.
In the more serious activities in those three years, what extracurricular activities were you involved in?
Of course, by working in the bowling alley, I was on the bowling team.
I was in the ping pong club.
The ham radio club was up above the desk area of the bowling alley.
So I was a member of the ham radio club.
Never did learn the Mars code all the way through.
Let's see.
Never was in student government.
I never had time because I was always working every spare minute that I had.
That's about it as I recall.
Of the extracurricular organizations, which ones do you think among you and your fellow students had the highest prestige?
I'm talking about band and MSC Council.
I'd say MSC Council and Directorate probably was the most prestigious group.
The band, we considered that more of a core outfit than a club type of an activity.
And even though they, of course, played instruments, it was a, and a lot of places, especially in high school, you'd think is the guys that didn't play football being in the band kind of sissies.
At A&M, the opposite is true.
The band was the toughest outfit on the campus, and I think probably still is to this day.
Very prestigious organization.
Which student leader by the office they held, which student leaders had the highest prestige?
The Cadet Colonel of the Corps had to be on top of the heap.
Did you even have a president of a student body then?
I don't even remember that we had a president of a student body.
I've heard the mention of others of your... Yeah.
I don't ever remember.
What would be the other?
Would band commander, would that be?
Would be tops?
It'd be almost like a military organization.
You know, the wing commanders and so forth would be prestigious.
Of course, the Yale leaders were very prestigious positions.
Senior class president?
Not so much.
I don't remember that being all that big a deal.
As far as you were aware, were there any secret fraternities when you were an undergraduate?
We heard rumors that there was a secret group.
I recall they were called T-Men or something like that.
A secret group, yeah.
You're saying singular?
Singular, yes.
That's the only one I ever heard of, and supposedly it was so secret that no one really knew for a fact if it even existed.
What was their supposed purpose?
Never knew that even.
See, I have the impression that in the 30s and earlier there were more than one, and that their purpose was to get their members into the key
positions in the Corps and so forth.
Could very well be.
Oh, Ross volunteered.
I failed to mention them.
That was a very prestigious group.
And let's see, in those days you had to be in the Corps the first two years, could then drop from the Corps, correct?
Not at that point.
All four years you were in the Corps.
You were not allowed to
to drop out of the Corps up until several years later.
I've forgotten.
I don't know just when that occurred, but we were in the Corps the whole time, all four years.
Right now, there were still a number of World War II veterans.
Yes.
Where did they live?
Not too many toward my junior and senior year.
Most of the freshman and sophomore year, there were some.
But they, as I recall, they had their own quarters.
A lot of them weren't in.
Now, as I recall, and I may be wrong on this,
But I think returning veterans were not required to be in the Corps.
I think that was the only exception.
Let's see, Guyon Hall.
What happened in Guyon Hall?
Guyon Hall was, I thought, one of the prettiest buildings on the campus and later turned out to be one of the best constructed buildings on the campus.
It was right at the foot of Military Walk.
Of course, the Bisa Hall was on the other end of Military Walk.
That was kind of the social gathering place.
In those days, they showed movies in Guyon Hall, and we always enjoyed that.
When you were a cadet officer of the day, and that rotated around you, maybe you got it once or twice during your
career at A&M.
You got to go see the movies free.
So everybody liked half of the movies when you were the OD.
And they had, as I recall, they had some religious, we had what we call Religious Emphasis Week.
And we'd have various speakers to come in and those were usually in Guyon Hall.
I'm not sure if we had commencement exercises in Guyon Hall or not.
Maybe we did.
Do you remember any famous
personalities that came to the campus for any purpose during your years as an undergraduate?
Are you talking about Guyon Hall still or just anywhere?
Oh yes, I remember there were one year after I was dating Leigh, she was with me, we had two or three busloads of fairly famous movie stars that came through on a tour of some type.
Keenan Wynn was there.
John Wayne was there.
They ate a meal with us in Duncan Hall.
I'm not sure if it was with this group, but I know that Bob Hope was on the campus once or twice.
Of course, one of the things that impressed me most as far as dignitaries coming was Eisenhower was here one time.
Did you get to see him?
I was in the audience.
That's what I mean?
Yes, yes, uh-huh.
And then, of course, one of the things that stands out in my mind is General Rutter's funeral.
And after everyone was in place, then LBJ walks down the aisle.
And that was, I remember that as if it happened yesterday morning.
Oh, help me, help me.
Yeah.
Were you there by any chance?
You betcha.
Uh-huh.
Shivers, Conley, everybody was there.
Well, that was almost like a who's who that mattered in the real world.
Absolutely.
During those three years on the main campus, when you're dating this young lady and that gets serious, where did you all go for enjoyable evenings?
Well, we'd go to the movies from time to time.
Of course, as a sophomore, I still had to observe CQ.
So during the week, I was pretty well out.
On weekends, I would usually go to church out at Steep Hollow and then go to her parents' house for Sunday lunch, fried chicken and all the trimmings and what have you.
But I guess the big social event we had was Saturday night movies.
And a lot of times they'd have late movies, so we'd be able to stay up and watch the late movie.
And that was before the television days, so movies were, that was their big deal.
All right, now I'm assuming that y'all didn't drink.
No.
But where did your contemporaries, if they were going to, if they were going to drink, did they, was hard liquor still going then?
Hard liquor was still going, but...
Now, it was legal to serve beer there.
I think so.
And, of course, the river, you could get some hard liquor across the river.
Whiskey Bridge.
Whiskey Bridge, yeah.
Are there other places that serve beer in the Bryan area?
I don't think so.
I don't remember seeing beer served here.
And I've never heard any mention of a house of ill repute.
The only place that was up and going when I was there, so I've been told, obviously, was the Chicken Ranch.
Chicken Ranch.
And then there was a motel in Seeley, Texas, that was pretty famous.
And in fact, a guy in our outfit used to date one of the girls on a pretty regular basis.
He was one of the wealthier guys.
Now, as far as the myths went,
Were there Aggies who went to LaGrange, to the chicken rink?
Yes, I understand that a lot of them were football players.
And I'm not sure how much of this I'm remembering from actual life and how much I'm remembering from the best little whorehouse in Texas, you know.
They kind of run together.
Who were the celebrity students during your time?
Weldon Kruger, of course, was one of our, he was the cadet colonel of the Corps, and he recently, you know Weldon, I presume, he moved back to town, and he's a classmate of mine, class of 53.
Ed Cooper and Bill Pressnell and me and Lee Phillips and just a whole lot of us in class 53 still live here.
In fact, there's so many class of 53 guys that live here now that we get together once a month.
We're not able to go too much because we're in a bridge club that conflicts with the date, but we have 40 or 50
people in the class of 53 that have moved back here.
And so we get together once a month for dinner and what have you.
So it's kind of a mini, mini reunion.
That reminds me of a question I've not asked anybody else.
I'm not going to ask you anything except the positive on this.
Based on your recollection of them as students, have some of them their success
as a graduate of Texas A&M given far greater promise than their career there would have.
Roland Krueger was a campus student leader and he did very, very well.
Yes.
Are there some others that went?
I would say the correlation is almost perfect.
We have a guy named Joe Matti who was a big campus leader in our class.
has done extremely well with his career.
I'm not sure exactly what he's done, but I know he's been very successful.
We have
A guy named Jim Upmore, who was a classmate of ours from a little country community out from West Texas, became H.B.
Zachary's leading land man and a very wealthy realtor in Houston and San Antonio.
He had some problems, but I think he's weathered those pretty well.
Oh, my goodness.
Gene Steed, who was a wing commander, as I recall, wound up I think as a district judge or something someplace.
So there is a definite correlation there.
Do you remember during your undergraduate days any worldwide event, any world important event, that caused you to kind of stop and remember and think, oh my goodness, like the Korean War started?
Yes.
Well, of course, as I mentioned, I was a kid during the Second World War.
I was too young to go, but I was a newspaper carrier during the Second World War, and I was... The Second World War had a tremendous impact on me personally, and I used to read the paper from cover to cover, everything I could find.
I still watch the History Channel all the time to see what's been going on.
So when the Korean War came along,
Of course, I was an A&M in the Corps at the time, headed toward a commission.
And so all of us watched the Korean War with great interest, not only as a citizen of the country, but as probably where we were headed.
Did you and your buddies use those terms that, you know, wrecking wheeled?
All the time.
And with mixed emotions, nobody wants to go to war, but we had been...
trained and practiced for this all of our college life so we were ready to go.
As it worked out I had my orders to report to the port of embarkation headed for Yokohama, Japan after I received my commission and had the orders in hand getting ready to leave and I got another set of orders
after the peace agreement had been signed, rescinding those orders.
And then as it worked out, I never did have to go on active duty during the Korean conflict.
But it was, I missed it by a matter of months.
And let's see.
Almost weeks.
Your and my years are about the same.
So there's no presidential assassinations.
or deaths like Franklin Roosevelt during undergraduate days or something like that.
There's no world famous cataclysm or anything.
Not that I recall.
Let's see.
Back to us.
Describe one of the core trips that you went on.
Oh, core trips were great.
I remember the ones to Dallas and Fort Worth more than anything else because we always had dates at TSCW.
As I mentioned back in those days, our freshman year, no one had cars.
In our upper classmen years, very few people had cars.
But anyone that had a car would load it down until the springs would almost break and we'd head for TSCW.
And we'd have dates there.
I'd almost call them like a boarding house type of arrangement where the Aggies could go in and maybe get five or six or seven in a room, either sleeping on the bed or on the floor or what have you, just for a place to sleep.
Of course, we'd always have the parades down the main streets of Dallas and Fort Worth, depending on who we were playing.
And the parades were very, I thought, were very inspirational.
I always enjoyed them.
What was the public's
reaction to that?
Oh, they loved it.
The turnout, the streets would be just lying with people, the full parade route.
Now, did you then, you Aggies, go to Denton Saturday night and spend the night there and then come back?
Sometime we'd leave on Friday if we'd have a chance.
A Friday night and maybe a Saturday night.
Right, yes.
What about the court trip then to Houston?
I don't remember the Houston court trips as being as much fun as the Dallas-Fort Worth.
Now the Houston court trip usually would wind up going to one of the dance halls where you take a date out to dance or something like that.
I know there was a big one off of South Main out kind of behind where Sonny Looks Steakhouse is near Loop 610 out there that we used to go to from time to time.
When the game was over, he came home, didn't he?
Yes, yes.
I never did really enjoy going to Austin that much.
My roommate, when I was a sophomore, was from Houston, so when we'd go to Houston, I'd usually stay at his house with him.
And he'd get his mom's and dad's car so we'd have some wheels.
Muster, do you remember Muster as an undergraduate?
Yes, I do.
I remember more about Silver Taps because muster of course just came once a year and it was kind of a formalized kind of a deal.
Where was muster held?
Muster was held in G. Raleigh White.
Silver Taps described?
Silver Taps was, the first one I went to probably was the most impressive because I didn't know what we were in for.
But of course, and I presume to this day it still held on the balcony of the academic building.
And we would gather around Lawrence Sullivan Ross' statue and then of course they would have the ceremony and the playing of the bugles in harmony.
But the thing that impressed me most was that many people
could be in a group together and you not hear a sound.
No talking.
I don't know if they still observe that or not, but I mean we didn't even whisper.
It was absolutely, from the time you left your dorm until you got back to the dorm, it was not a word spoken.
And that was impressive with that many people.
As you are getting ready to graduate, and you graduated in four years?
four years.
I had to go two summers to make up for the courses that I messed up on petroleum engineering.
You're getting ready to graduate.
What kind of a world did you think you were getting ready to enter and how well prepared did you think you were?
I think we felt pretty confident that we could make it.
As I recall, the job market was pretty tight.
In fact, I remember interviewing
I specifically wanted to go into retailing.
Probably Herb Thompson kind of influenced me in that direction.
And I wanted to go into retailing, and at that time, the biggest bear in the jungle was Sears Rowboat.
And I wanted to go to work for Sears.
There was a personnel director out of Dallas for this region named Sam Moorhead, former A&M student, and I believe he was a class of 38 also, I'm not sure.
But Sam came down to do the interviewing in the placement office.
And I talked with him and I wanted to go to work for Sears badly.
Well, I didn't get an offer.
And one of my profs, I failed to mention him earlier, but probably had more influence than anyone else, was a gentleman named Satch Elkins.
I don't know what his first name was, we always called him Satch.
But Satch Elkins knew me on a personal basis and knew my interest in going to work for Sears.
So he picked up the phone and called Sam Moorhead, unbeknownst to me.
And I found out later that he had done it because Sam told me.
Called Sam and said that I've got this young man that I want you to take another look at.
And Sam apparently told him, well, we looked at him, almost made an offer.
We just didn't have that many positions to offer.
And he says, based on your recommendation, we'll go ahead and make him an offer.
So I went to work for Sears.
Do you remember what that beginning pay was?
Oh, my goodness.
I remember my second lieutenant's pay was $222 a month.
I'll never forget that.
It was, I can't imagine, but it was just nothing almost.
So this is 19... 1953.
Fall of 53.
Well, I graduated in May and then went to work shortly thereafter in Waco, Texas for a store manager named Neil Gately, who was another guy that had a pretty good influence on my life.
But the program that I went into as a college graduate was called a junior executive training program.
I didn't realize at the time what a junior executive training program was, but my first job was unloading boxcars at the warehouse with a two-wheeler.
And then, of course, they had it as a formalized program, and that's where you started, and you worked in a lot of different departments.
It was an excellent program to groom people for management and seers.
what now do you think, looking back on your entire professional life, what did it mean in terms of developing attitudes and capabilities and so forth?
What did the A&M years mean?
There's no way I could emphasize the importance that I could place on what I picked up at A&M.
As I mentioned, I'd always led a very sheltered life and a very
A life that really went beyond our little town city limits.
When I went to Waco, it was a big occasion.
I'd never been out of McLennan County, I don't think, until I came to A&M.
So A&M is where I picked up my ability to, I feel, what limited ability I have to relate to other people, almost people that are strangers, people that I was not raised with.
I always felt like I had an inferiority complex.
When I went from a small rural school to Waco High School, which was one of the largest high schools in the state at that time, I almost climbed into a shell.
I just felt like that I was not
as good as everybody else was.
Well, A&M taught me differently from that.
That, you know, no matter where you're from, you got the same shot as everybody else has.
And so that, bringing me out of my shell and so forth, I give A&M full credit for that and the Corps specifically.
Right now, have we got time to go a while longer?
Sure, I've got, your time is my time.